refined guides for the PoS migration (#56)
onmax/nimiq-developer-center: migration/validator-registration.md

## Validator Registration Tool

This guide focuses on **Phase 1: Validator Registration** of the migration process, which takes place between **September 12 and October 6**. During this phase, you will create and register your validator on the PoW Mainnet, preparing it for the transition to PoS.

Nimiq has developed a **Validator Registration Tool** specifically for this process. By using this tool, validators pre-register within the PoW chain, ensuring they are ready for the PoS transition. The tool operates in two modes:

- **Key and Address Generation**: Generates the validator's keys and corresponding address
- **Validator Registration**: Registers the validator by sending the necessary transactions on the PoW chain

| **Phase** | **Start** | **End** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Validator Registration** | **12th September** | **6th October** |
| Pre-Stake Phase | 7th October | 10th November |
| Validator Activation | 19th November | - |

The steps outlined in this guide are only applicable during the **Validator Registration Phase**.

> The **Activation Phase** begins on **November 19**, and we recommend running the activation tool **before** this date to allow your node to download the database early. Learn more about the activation process [here](#what-s-next).

Reviewer: I'd remove this line from this guide since this guide is talking about the validator registration phase.

### Prerequisites

- Ensure [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) ≥ v18.20.4 is installed

> - Clone the [Nimiq Validator Registration Tool repository](https://github.com/nimiq/validator-registration-tool) and move to the directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clone the [Nimiq Validator Registration Tool repository](https://github.com/nimiq/validator-registration-tool) and move to the directory the repository was clone at
```

- Install Yarn globally with `npm install -g yarn`
- Install all dependencies by executing `yarn` inside the cloned repository

### Step 1: Generate the Validator Keys

Execute the tool without parameters to generate a validator address, signing key, and voting key:

```bash
node validator-registration.js
```

The tool generates fresh keys and stores them into the `validator-keys.json` file in your current directory. The screenshot demonstrates an example output of the script:

<img class="object-contain max-h-[max(80vh,220px)]" src="/assets/images/migration/migration.png" alt="Validator example keys" />

<Callout type='tip'>

Save the private keys securely, especially the validator private key! **There is no recovery mechanism for lost private keys**. Once lost, access to your validator and related NIM may be permanently lost.

</Callout>

For detailed guidance through the scripts and their options, run `node validator-registration.js --help`. This will print out the usage instructions.

**Using your own keys**

> You can of course also generate your own validator, signing, and/or voting keys using other methods. To do so, create a `validator-keys.json` file and replace the auto-generated address and keys with your own. Once you have added your keys, continue with the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can of course also generate your own validator, signing, and/or voting keys using other methods. To do so, copy the `validator-keys.json` file generated in the previous step and replace the auto-generated address and keys with your own. Once you have added your keys, continue with the next step.
```

Author: I don't understand this comment. If I want to generate my keys, I need to run `node validator-registration.js` as well? If the user generates his own keys, it's because he did not executed the previous step, right?

Reviewer: Yes. When you clone the repository, there won't be any `validator-keys.json` file to edit. So we have to run the command first to create it.

Run the following command from the cloned `validator-registration-tool` repository. You must specify the arguments as follows:

```bash
node validator-registration.js --validator validator-keys.json --network main
```

### Step 4: Deposit Payment and Commit

The final step involves committing to the registration and paying the validator's deposit of 100 000 NIM. This transaction can be sent from any address, but **you must include your validator address** in the transaction’s “public message” field. This allows the deposit to be linked to your validator.

To send the transaction manually via Nimiq Wallet, you need the following data:

|                       |                                                                      |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Recipient Address** | `NQ07 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000`                       |

> | **Value**             | `100 000` NIM or more                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Value**             | `100 000` NIM or more                                                |
```
